NAME

    dsr2html


SYNOPSIS

    dsr2html: Render DICOM SR file and data set to HTML


SUMMARY

The dsr2html utility renders the contents of a DICOM Structured Reporting
(SR) document (file format or raw data set) to HTML (Hyper Text Markup
Language).  The output should be compliant to HTML version 3.2 as long
as no Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and Specific Character Sets are used -
then it conforms to HTML version 4.0.  The HTML output does not include
any reference to a certain DTD (Document Type Definition).

If dsr2html reads a raw data set (dicom data without a file format
meta-header) it will attempt to guess the transfer syntax by examining
the first few bytes of the file.  It is not always possible to correctly
guess the transfer syntax and it is better to convert a data set to
a file format whenever possible (using the dcmconv utility).  It is
also possible to use the -f and -t[ieb] options to force dsr2html to read
a dataset with a particular transfer syntax.


USAGE

dsr2html: Render DICOM SR file and data set to HTML
usage: dsr2html [options] dsrfile-in [htmlfile-out]

parameters:
  dsrfile-in                    DICOM SR input filename to be rendered
  htmlfile-out                  HTML output filename (default: stdout)

general options:
  -h     --help                 print this help text and exit
  -d     --debug                debug mode, print debug information
input options:
  input file format:
    +f   --read-file            read file format or data set (default)
    -f   --read-dataset         read data set without file meta information
  input transfer syntax (only with --read-dataset):
    -t=  --read-xfer-auto       use TS recognition (default)
    -te  --read-xfer-little     read with explicit VR little endian TS
    -tb  --read-xfer-big        read with explicit VR big endian TS
    -ti  --read-xfer-implicit   read with implicit VR little endian TS
output options:
  document rendering:
    +Dt  --document-type-title  use document type as document title (default)
    +Dp  --patient-info-title   use patient information as document title
    -Dh  --no-document-header   do not render general document information
  code rendering:
    +Ci  --render-inline-codes  render codes in continuous text blocks
    +Cn  --concept-name-codes   render code of concept names
    +Cu  --numeric-unit-codes   render code of numeric measurement units
    +Cv  --code-value-unit      use code value as measurement unit (default)
    +Cm  --code-meaning-unit    use code meaning as measurement unit
    +Ca  --render-all-codes     render all codes (+Ci, +Cn, +Cu)
  general rendering:
    +Ri  --expand-inline        expand short content items inline (default)
    -Ri  --never-expand-inline  never expand content items inline
    +Rd  --render-full-data     render full data of content items
  cascading style sheet (CSS):
    +Sr  --css-reference        URL : string
                                add reference to specified CSS to HTML page
    +Sf  --css-file             filename : string
                                embed content of specified CSS into HTML page


DICOM CONFORMANCE

The dsr2html application supports the following SOP Classes (according to
DICOM Supplement 23 Final Text - Structured Reporting Storage SOP Classes):

    BasicTextSR            "1.2.840.10008.5.1.4.1.1.88.11"
    EnhancedSR             "1.2.840.10008.5.1.4.1.1.88.22" 
    ComprehensiveSR        "1.2.840.10008.5.1.4.1.1.88.33" 


ENVIRONMENT

The dsr2html utility will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries
specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if
the DCMDICTPATH environment variable is not set, the file
/usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will be loaded.  The default behaviour
should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH environment variable only used
when alternative data dictionaries are required.  The DCMDICTPATH
environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH variable in
that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code will
attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
