
NAME

   wlmscpdb


SYNOPSIS

   wlmscpdb [options] port


SUMMARY

The wlmscpdb application implements a Service Class Provider (SCP) for the
Basic Worklist Management Service. The application will listen on a specified
TCP/IP port for incoming association requests from a Worklist Management SCU.
In case an association was acknowledged and a worklist query was received, the
wlmscpdb application will query a particular database (which can be specified
through corresponding program options) for corresponding worklist information,
and it will send this information back to the calling Worklist Management SCU.
Aside from dealing with Worklist Management queries, the wlmscpdb application
also supports the Verification Service Class as an SCP.


USAGE

wlmscpdb: DICOM Basic Worklist Management SCP (based on database)
usage: wlmscpdb [options] port

parameters:
  port                           tcp/ip port number to listen on

general options:
  -h      --help                 print this help text and exit
  -v      --verbose              verbose mode, print processing details
  -d      --debug                debug mode, print debug information
  -s      --single-process       single process mode
  -sn     --serial-number        [s]erial number: integer (1..9999)
                                 serial number of this installation,
                                 will be added to StudyInstanceUID
  -nse    --no-sq-expansion      disable expansion of empty sequences
                                 in C-FIND request messages
database options:
  -dsn    --data-source-name     [n]ame: string
                                 data source name of database
                                 (default: <none>)
  -dbu    --db-user-name         [n]ame: string
                                 name of database user
                                 (default: <none>)
  -dbp    --db-user-password     [p]assword: string
                                 password for database user
                                 (default: <none>)
  -cfm    --db-cfg-file-match    [f]ilename: string
                                 use configuration file f for deter-
                                 mination of matching records.
                                 (default: searchStmt.txt)
  -cfs    --db-cfg-file-select   [f]ilename: string
                                 use configuration file f for se-
                                 lection of attribute values.
                                 (default: dcmTagsStmt.txt)
  -dbo    --database-oracle      database type: oracle database (default)
returned character set options:
  -cs0    --return-no-char-set   return no specific character set (default)
  -cs1    --return-iso-ir-100    return specific character set ISO IR 100
network options:
  preferred network transfer syntaxes:
    +x=   --prefer-uncompr       prefer explicit VR local byte order (default)
    +xe   --prefer-little        prefer explicit VR little endian TS
    +xb   --prefer-big           prefer explicit VR big endian TS
    +xi   --implicit             accept implicit VR little endian TS only
  other network options:
          --refuse               refuse association
          --reject               reject association if no implement. class UID
          --no-fail              don't fail on an invalid query
          --sleep-after          [s]econds: integer
                                 sleep s seconds after find (default: 0)
          --sleep-during         [s]econds: integer
                                 sleep s seconds during find (default: 0)
    -pdu  --max-pdu              [n]umber of bytes: integer [4096..131072]
                                 set max receive pdu to n bytes (default: 16384)
    -dhl  --disable-host-lookup  disable hostname lookup
  group length encoding (when sending C-FIND response data):
    +g=   --group-length-recalc  recalculate group lengths if present (default)
    +g    --group-length-create  always write with group length elements
    -g    --group-length-remove  always write without group length elements
  length encoding in sequences and items (when sending C-FIND response data):
    +e    --length-explicit      write with explicit lengths (default)
    -e    --length-undefined     write with undefined lengths
encoding options:
  post-1993 value representations:
    +u    --enable-new-vr        enable support for new VRs (UN/UT) (default)
    -u    --disable-new-vr       disable support for new VRs, convert to OB


OPTIONS

The semantic impacts of the above mentioned options is clear for the majority
of options. Some particular options, however, are so specific that they need
detailed descriptions which will be given in this passage.

Option --serial-number is intended for situations in which the wlmscpdb
application has to generate one or more new Dicom UIDs. In such a case, the
integer which is passed to the application through this option will be added to
the given UID root, so that it is possible to generate unique UIDs.

The returned character set options are intended for situations in which the
wlmscpdb application is supposed to return attribute values which are not
composed of characters from the Dicom default character repertoire. In such
cases, for example option --return-iso-ir-100 can be used to specify a certain
character repertoire (in this example the repertoire ISO IR 100) from which the
characters of returned attribute values are taken.

Option --no-sq-expansion disables the expansion of empty sequences in C-FIND
request messages which are received by this application. According to the DICOM
standard, an SCP shall interpret an empty sequence in a C-FIND request message
in a way as if all attributes which can possibly occur within this sequence
were present. The default behaviour of this application follows this specifica-
tion. However, in case option --no-sq-expansion is set, this default behaviour
is modified and the software will not expand empty sequences; instead, corres-
ponding sequences in returned DICOM datasets will also show empty sequences.


DICOM CONFORMANCE

The wlmscpdb application supports the following SOP Classes as an SCP:

    VerificationSOPClass                             "1.2.840.10008.1.1"

    FINDModalityWorklistInformationModel             "1.2.840.10008.5.1.4.31"

The wlmscpdb application will accept presentation contexts for all of the
abovementioned supported SOP Classes using any of the transfer syntaxes:

    LittleEndianImplicitTransferSyntax               "1.2.840.10008.1.2"
    LittleEndianExplicitTransferSyntax               "1.2.840.10008.1.2.1"
    BigEndianExplicitTransferSyntax                  "1.2.840.10008.1.2.2"

The default behaviour of the wlmscpdb application is to prefer transfer
syntaxes having an explicit encoding over the default implicit transfer syntax.
If wlmscpdb is running on big-endian hardware it will prefer BigEndianExplicit-
TransferSyntax over LittleEndianExplicitTransferSyntax (and vice versa). This
behaviour can be changed with the --prefer options (see above).

The wlmscpdb application does not support extended negotiation.


ENVIRONMENT

The wlmscpdb application will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries specified
in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if the DCMDICTPATH
environment variable is not set, the file /usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will
be loaded.  The default behaviour should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH
environment variable only used when alternative data dictionaries are required.
The DCMDICTPATH environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH
variable in that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code
will attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
