
NAME

   dcmmklut

SYNOPSIS

   dcmmklut [options] window-center window-width dcmimg-in dcmimg-out

SUMMARY

The dcmmklut utility allows to create a variety of DICOM Modality LUT and 
VOI LUT look up tables and is intended for the creation of test images. The 
utility reads an existing DICOM image file, creates a look up table 
according to the command line options, and writes the new object back to 
file. The output file is encoded with the same transfer syntax used for the 
input file. The boundaries for the look up table are specified as if it was 
a DICOM VOI window center/width operation. From the window center and 
width, the LUT descriptor is automatically derived. The LUT data has always 
the shape of a gamma curve. The gamma factor can be specified by a command 
line option and defaults to 1. The utility does not currently support the 
creation of LUTs with 2^16 entries. No precautions are taken to prevent the 
creation of LUTs that are larger than the size limit of US values in 
explicit VR transfer syntaxes (65534 bytes).

USAGE

dcmmklut: Add modality or VOI LUT to image
usage: dcmmklut [options] window-center window-width dcmimg-in dcmimg-out

parameters:
  window-center        window center equivalent of LUT to be created
  window-width         window width equivalent of LUT to be created
  dcmimg-in            DICOM input image file
  dcmimg-out           DICOM output filename

general options:
  -h     --help        print this help text and exit
  -v     --verbose     verbose mode, print processing details
  -d     --debug       debug mode, print debug information
LUT creation options:
  LUT type:
    +Tm  --modality    create as Modality LUT
    +Tv  --voi         create as VOI LUT (default)
  LUT placement:
    +Pa  --add         add to existing transform
                       (default for +Tv, only with +Tv)
    +Pr  --replace     replace existing transform (default for +Tm)
  LUT content:
    -g   --gamma       gamma: float
                       use gamma value (default: 1.0)
    -b   --bits        [n]umber : integer
                       create LUT with n bit values (8..16, default: 16)
    -a   --byte-align  create byte-aligned LUT (implies -b 8)

ENVIRONMENT

The dcmmklut application will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries
specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if
the DCMDICTPATH environment variable is not set, the file
/usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will be loaded.  The default behaviour
should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH environment variable only used
when alternative data dictionaries are required.  The DCMDICTPATH 
environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH variable in
that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code will
attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment 
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.


