
NAME

   dcmpssnd


SYNOPSIS

   dcmpssnd [options] config-file target study [series] [instance]


SUMMARY

The dcmpssnd application is invoked by the Grayscale Softcopy Presentation
State Viewer and is not intended to be invoked manually. The application
reads the common configuration file which is shared between the different
components of the viewer, attempts to establish a DICOM association with
the selected target and, if successful, selects the required DICOM
instances from the viewer's database and transmits them using the DICOM
storage service class, which is supported as SCU. When transmission is
finished (successfully or unsuccessfully), the application terminates. This
application supports the same storage SOP classes as the storescu utility,
but does not support encapsulated transfer syntaxes. See the full
conformance statement for further details.


USAGE

dcmpssnd: Network send for presentation state viewer
usage: dcmpssnd [options] config-file target study [series] [instance]

parameters:
  config-file       configuration file to be read
  target            symbolic identifier of send target in config file
  study             study instance UID of study in database to be sent
  series            series instance UID (default: send complete study)
  instance          SOP instance UID (default: send complete series)

general options:
  -h    --help      print this help text and exit
        --version   print version information and exit
  -v    --verbose   verbose mode, print processing details
  -d    --debug     debug mode, print debug information


ENVIRONMENT

The dcmpssnd application will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries
specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if
the DCMDICTPATH environment variable is not set, the file
/usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will be loaded.  The default behaviour
should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH environment variable only used
when alternative data dictionaries are required.  The DCMDICTPATH
environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH variable in
that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code will
attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
