
NAME

   dcmpschk


SYNOPSIS

   dcmpschk [options] [filename_in...]


SUMMARY

The dcmpschk utility checks DICOM Grayscale Softcopy Presentation State
objects for conformance with the standard.  The test is performed in three
phases:

- Phase 1 checks the Meta-header of the DICOM file. It is tested whether
  all required attributes are present, whether the SOP class and instance
  UIDs match the UIDs in the main object and whether the group length
  attribute contains a correct value.  The Transfer Syntax of the Meta-
  header is also checked.

- Phase 2 performs a syntactic check of the values, value representations
  and value multiplicities for each attribute in the object. The values
  present in the object under test are compared with the definitions of the
  DICOM data dictionary.

- Phase 3 performs a semantic check of the integrity of the Presentation
  State. This phase is omitted when objects of other SOP Classes are
  encountered. Phase 1 and 2 can also be applied to other DICOM objects of
  arbitrary SOP class.
  It should be noted that dcmpschk does not support Presentation States
  which contain the Mask Module. These will be rejected with a message
  that the Mask Module is not supported.


USAGE

dcmpschk: Checking tool for presentation states
usage: dcmpschk [options] filename_in...

parameters:
  filename_in         presentation state file(s) to be checked

general options:
  -h  --help          print this help text and exit
      --version       print version information and exit
  -v  --verbose       verbose mode, print actions
  -d  --debug         debug mode, print debug information
  -l  --logfile       [f]ilename: string
                      write output to logfile f

ENVIRONMENT

The dcmpschk application will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries
specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if
the DCMDICTPATH environment variable is not set, the file
/usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will be loaded.  The default behaviour
should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH environment variable only used
when alternative data dictionaries are required.  The DCMDICTPATH
environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH variable in
that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code will
attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
