
NAME

   dcmprscp


SYNOPSIS

   dcmprscp [options]


SUMMARY

The dcmprscp utility implements the DICOM Basic Grayscale Print Management
Service Class as SCP. It also supports the optional Presentation LUT SOP
Class. The utility is intended for use within the DICOMscope viewer.

The dcmprscp utility accepts print jobs from a remote Print SCU. It does not
create real hardcopies but stores print jobs in the local DICOMscope
database as a set of Stored Print objects (one per page) and Hardcopy
Grayscale images (one per film box N-SET). The DICOMscope application allows
to load a Stored Print object created by dcmprscp and to render a screen
preview of the hardcopy. The dcmprscp utility reads the characteristics of
the printer to be emulated from the configuration file.


USAGE

dcmprscp: DICOM basic grayscale print management SCP
usage: dcmprscp [options]

general options:
  -h  --help          print this help text and exit
      --version       print version information and exit
  -v  --verbose       verbose mode, print actions
  -d  --debug         debug mode, print debug information
processing options:
  -c  --config        [f]ilename: string
                      process using settings from configuration file
  -p  --printer       [n]ame: string (default: 1st printer in cfg file)
                      select printer with identifier [n] from cfg file
  +d  --dump          print all DIMSE messages
  -l  --logfile       print to log file instead of stdout

ENVIRONMENT

The dcmprscp application will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries
specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if
the DCMDICTPATH environment variable is not set, the file
/usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will be loaded.  The default behaviour
should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH environment variable only used
when alternative data dictionaries are required.  The DCMDICTPATH
environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH variable in
that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code will
attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
