NAME

    dcmconv

SYNOPSIS

    dcmconv [options] dicomfile-in dcmfile-out

SUMMARY

The dcmconv utility reads a dicomfile (dicomfile-in),
performs an encoding conversion and writes the converted
data to an output file (dicomfile-out). Beginning with 
version 3.2 of the DCMTK toolkit, dcmconv replaces the 
applications ds2file and file2ds from previous releases. 

USAGE


dcmconv [options] dcmfile-in dcmfile-out
options are:

  input options:

    DICOM fileformat (Supplement 1/Part 10) support:\n"
      -f      read file without metaheader.
              Transfer syntax discovery for datasets can fail so
              it can be desirable to try all transfer syntaxes if
	      an error occurs.
      +f      read file with metaheader (default)

    input transfer syntax (only with -f):
      Since a DICOM file with metaheader defines the transfer syntax
      in the metaheader,  this option is not allowed for input
      transfer syntaxes.
      -t=     try and discover input transfer syntax (can fail) (default)
      -ti     read with little-endian implicit transfer syntax 
      -te     read with little-endian explicit transfer syntax
      -tb     read with big-endian explicit transfer syntax

  output options:

    DICOM fileformat (Sup. 1) support:\n"
      -F      write file without metaheader
      +F      write file with metaheader (default)

    output transfer syntax:
      These options specify the transfer syntax of the dataset. In
      case of a DICOM file with metaheader, the metaheader has a
      standard defined transfer syntax and only the transfer syntax 
      of the additional dataset can be defined using this options.
      +t=     write with same transfer syntax as input (default)
      +ti     write with little-endian implicit transfer syntax
      +te     write with little-endian explicit transfer syntax
      +tb     write with big-endian explicit transfer syntax

    group length encoding: 
      +g      write with group lengths.
              Group length tags are created for every group in
              the DICOM dataset.
      +g=     recalculate group lengths (default).
              If group length tags exist, their value is recalculated.
              No group length tags are created.
      -g      write without group lengths
              All group length tags are deleted from the dataset.

    length encoding in sequences and items:
      +e      write sequences and items with explicit lengths (default)
      -e      write sequences and items with undefined lengths

    padding (applicable only for DICOM files with metaheader)
      According to "Supplement 1: Common Media Storage Functions 
      for Data Interchange", a dataset or an item in a sequence 
      may contain a DataSetTrailingPadding tag if it is stored
      on media (with metaheader). 
      -p      no padding (default for datasets)
              Removes all DataSetTrailingPadding tags.
      -p=     do not change padding (default for metaheader files)
      +p n m  pad file x*n bytes and items y*m bytes
              Pads the whole file to a multiple of n bytes.
              Every item can be padded to a multiple of m bytes. 
              One of the two parameters (n, m) must be larger than zero.

    unknown VR
      -u      disable generation of new VRs (UN/UT/VS)
      +u      enable generation of new VRs (UN/UT/VS) (default)

  other options:
      -h      print this usage string
      +V      verbose mode, print actions
      +dn     set debug level to n (n=1..9)

ENVIRONMENT

The dcmconv utility will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries
specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable.  By default, if
the DCMDICTPATH environment variable is not set, the file
/usr/local/dicom/lib/dicom.dic will be loaded.  The default behaviour
should be preferred and the DCMDICTPATH environment variable only used
when alternative data dictionaries are required.  The DCMDICTPATH 
environment variable has the same format as the shell PATH variable in
that a colon (":") separates entries.  The data dictionary code will
attempt to load each file specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment 
variable.  It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.

AUTHORS

Andrew Hewett, Andreas Barth, Kuratorium OFFIS e.V., Oldenburg, Germany




